---
layout: ballerina-left-nav-pages-swanlake
title: Structuring Ballerina Code
description: The below are everything you need to know about using Ballerina packages to structure your code. It also introduces the package-related commands in the `bal` command-line tool.
keywords: ballerina, programming language, ballerina modules, structure code
permalink: /learn/user-guide/structuring-ballerina-code/
active: structuring-ballerina-code
intro: The below are everything you need to know about using Ballerina packages to structure your code. It also introduces the package-related commands in the `bal` command-line tool.
redirect_from:
  - /learn/how-to-structure-ballerina-code
  - /learn/how-to-structure-ballerina-code/
  - /learn/structuring-ballerina-code
  - /swan-lake/learn/structuring-ballerina-code/
  - /swan-lake/learn/structuring-ballerina-code
  - /learn/structuring-ballerina-code/
  - /learn/structuring-ballerina-code
  - /learn/user-guide/structuring-ballerina-code
---

## Organizing Your Code

There are two ways to write your code in a Ballerina program: 

1. In a single Ballerina source file (with the `.bal` extension)
2. In a Ballerina package

The single source file program is a quick and easy way to get started with Ballerina. However, when your code grows, you often want to:
- organize your code by splitting it into multiple files 
- hide implementation-related parts from the API
- manage your dependencies to achieve reproducible builds
- write test cases to validate the functionality

Otherwise, you will end up with a messy, unstructured codebase, which is hard to navigate and understand. Therefore, code organization plays a significant role in improving readability, and thereby, writing a Ballerina package is the first step towards organizing code in Ballerina.

## Working with Ballerina Packages

A Ballerina package organizes Ballerina code providing a unique namespace for all the functions, types, variables, and constants defined within the package. In Ballerina, how you package and distribute Ballerina code is also via packages. 

A package has an organization name, package name, and a version, which are used to identify a package uniquely. The `organization` typically represents a user. It allows you to group all your packages. Both the organization and package names have to be valid Ballerina [identifiers](/spec/lang/master/#identifier). Package versions have to be semantic as described in the [SemVer specification](https://semver.org/).  

A Ballerina package is stored in a directory. It contains a collection of source (`.bal`) files and a package manifest (`Ballerina.toml` file). The manifest file marks a directory as a Ballerina package.

## Writing Your First Ballerina Package

Follow the steps below to write a simple program in a Ballerina package, which prints `Hello World!` in the console. 

1. Get Ballerina [installed](/learn/installing-ballerina).

2. In the CLI, execute the `bal new helloworld` command to create a new Ballerina package.

    This generates a package directory with the structure below. 

    ```bash
    helloworld
    ├── Ballerina.toml
    └── main.bal
    
    0 directories, 2 files
    ```

    **The `Ballerina.toml` File**

    This file identifies a directory as a Ballerina package. It will include the content below.

    ```toml
    [build-options]
    observabilityIncluded = true
    ```

    The above `Ballerina.toml` file represents an application package. The organization, name, and the version of the package are set with default values when building or running the package.

    **The `main.bal` File**

    This file generated by the `bal new` command will have the content below.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/io;

    public function main() {
        io:println("Hello World!");
    }
    ```

    This function prints `Hello World!` in the console. 

3. Navigate to the created `helloworld` package directory.

4. Execute the `bal build` command to build an executable of this file. You view the output below.

    ```bash
    Compiling source
	    examples/helloworld:0.1.0

    Generating executable
	    target/bin/helloworld.jar
    ```

5. Execute the `bal run` command to run the program. You view the output below.

    ```bash
    Compiling source
	    examples/helloworld:0.1.0

    Running executable

    Hello World!
    ```

>**Note:** You can have one or more Ballerina source files with the `.bal` extension at the root of your package directory. The variables, functions, types, and constants defined in one source file are visible to other files in the same directory because they are in the same namespace. 

### Creating a library package

Executing `bal new helloworld --template lib` will create a library package. In addition to the 
`Ballerina.toml` file and the source bal file, the `Package.md` file will be created.

For lib packages, the `Ballerina.toml` file will include the content below.

```toml
[package]
org = "examples"
name = "helloworld"
version = "0.1.0"

[build-options]
observabilityIncluded = true
```

The `[package]` table contains metadata about the generated package. The package name is `helloworld` and its current `0.1.0` version is in the `examples` organization.

Execute the `bal build -c` command to build the Ballerina archive of the package.
 
## Working with Ballerina Modules

Now, that you successfully built and executed a Ballerina package, next, see [Ballerina modules](/learn/structuring-ballerina-code/working-with-ballerina-modules).  

<style> #tree-expand-all, #tree-collapse-all, .cTocElements {display:none;} .cGitButtonContainer {padding-left: 40px;} </style>




